This is number one, two, three, one, two, three, one, two, three, four.
Now turn off.
this is number four five six four five six seven four five six seven now turn off this is may the fifth and i'm at 307 dexter getting ready to chat with mr ed garner about his memories of being a student here mr garner say a sentence or two so we can check your microphone
All right, what is the main thing we want to talk about is, I guess, from the time I got here till now.
Just your student years.
All right, now let me stop and see.
To begin, Mr. Garner, let's assume that someone is listening to this 50 years from now, and they might not know about your background before you got to A&M.
Begin, please, by describing where you were born, where you went to school, what your family did for a living, and your background before you came to A&M.
I was born in March 16, 1914, in a little community out of Corsica County, Texas, about eight miles out in the country there.
We were poor.
God, we were poor.
And my dad had a little hundred acres, and he'd make two or three bales of cotton a year.
Anyway, in 1919, he moved us to Vernon, which is about 50 miles on the other side of Wichita Falls, going toward Amarillo.
My mother or father had no education.
I think both of them might have gotten to the fifth grade.
And other than that, it's just—and I had five children in the family, three boys and two girls.
And the boys—the two older boys never finished school.
And I had two sisters.
that both graduated from high school and that's as far as they ever got.
And so, as I was growing up there in Vernon, oh we, when it came to cotton chopping time, we had to chop cotton.
And when it came to cotton picking time, we had to pick cotton.
And it was tough.
God, we'd get out there
They'd pick us up at 7 o'clock in the morning and bring us back in dark and make a dollar a day when they was chopping that cotton.
And when they get to the picking time, why, it was forty cents a hundred.
I could see it just as well as I could see outside.
We were just poor people.
There was nothing, nothing any poorer than, I guess, poor, being poor.
But they, as the older, I was the youngest of the five, and they all seemed to finally leave home.
And my mother died in 31.
She was 44 years old.
And that left me and I had a sister, which is six years older than I am, there with me.
And that's what we had just she and I. Well, my dad had gone.
He—she passed away.
He went back to this love community out of Corsicana.
We never saw him anymore.
And so she was, when she graduated from high school, she went to work for Woolworths and made $9 a week, you know, 48 hours a week.
And people don't realize anything like that now, but that's the way it was.
And I was, when my mother passed away and
Thirty-one, I was a junior in high school.
So, I was playing football and basketball and track, and I wasn't very big.
As old head Davis says, every time he sees me, he says, there goes the diminutive quarterback Vernon High.
But anyway, we made it.
And when I got out of school, I had gone to Austin on a scholarship.
And I won the, in Wichita Falls, I had won the 100 and the 220 and the 220 low hurdles.
So that got me.
And then I got a scholarship from ACC, Abilene Christian College.
And about a week before I went down there to enroll, I had a penicillitis operation.
So they canceled that on me.
So I, when I got to work again, I had a good friend, and they gave me a job delivering clothes in a little tailor shop.
And I had been working on Saturdays for many years in the grocery store, so I kept that job.
And I just worked where I could, and I saved my money.
And after high school was over with, I had a football coach that graduated from A&M.
And he suggested, since I wasn't too big, to go to some junior college.
I wanted to come to A&M because I had written down here, and they said they'd give you your clothes.
But then, hell, you know, it was just those old Army clothes, you know.
I didn't know any better.
So he gave me a recommendation to the policeman man down here.
And then we had a senator from Chillicothe, which is a little town about 20 miles in front of us.
And a graduate of A&M.
So I waited up there one day and introduced myself to him and asked him if he'd give me a recommendation.
So he wrote down there.
So when I got here, I didn't have a job.
No.
But about a week after I got here, they called me up and told me that I had a job in Sabisa Hall.
Right.
Now that, when you arrived here, was what fall?
The September of 94.
I mean, I mean.
Thirty-four.
September of 1934.
September.
And it seemed to me like the day was the 18th, but I'll swear I'll never.
How did you get down here from Vernon?
On the train.
I left there Sunday afternoon and arrived in here next morning
at four-something o'clock in the morning there, it was black as bitch.
And I didn't know which side of the A&M was on either side of the railroad track I did.
So I just followed the boys.
And I came up here to Walton Hall, which is a new—they had just built that hall.
And
I go in there and I had a suitcase and a radio.
A little radio.
And that's what I brought to Texas A&M.
What did you have in the suitcase?
I had a sheet and a quilt and a few of my clothes.
And that's all I had.
How much money did you bring?
Do you remember?
I had
saved that next year around $300 and that was going to be my four years of education.
I had, I just said, well, I'm going to make it somehow.
And that started, I'm going to be an engineer.
And hell, I didn't know what an engineer was, you know.
They didn't teach me anything like that in high school.
So it took me a year and a half to get smart enough to get out of that engineering.
So I graduated.
Then they had what they called a course in marketing and finance.
And I think they've broken that down to many different divisions now.
Right.
When you first, that first day, who helped you find a place to,
to sleep that night, who directed you to where you ought to go next?
Well, that was, that was Monday morning, and they told us that we had to go over to the hospital and have an examination.
So I looked, went over there and
Seemed to me like they were about 1400 that, that year, freshman.
And I got over there and I got up on top of the steps of the old hospital over there and I looked back down the way down there and I saw a boy that I used to run track with, against, and he was in Chillicothe.
No one knows where Chillicothe is.
But man, I tell you, I was happiest I believe I ever saw, seeing somebody that I knew that knew nothing about Edwin Garner.
But anyway, he was going to be an engineer, too.
And he graduated in engineering, agricultural engineering under her daddy right out there.
So anyway, they invited us up and I was a freshman in Mitchell Hall.
And that's where I stayed my freshman year.
Describe your room in Mitchell Hall.
Well, it was just a room with two beds and one table for both of us to study off of.
And that mid-semester, we were appointed to have another roommate.
So we called him Frog, and I don't remember what his last name was.
But anyway, he put that bed, made it a three-tier bed.
And that was something.
And we had that for the rest of that, what, next May?
And then that summer I had a friend that was going to North Texas there at Denton.
And he wanted me to come up there and go to school with him that summer.
So,
I did, and I went up there, and I took 12 hours up there that summer.
All right.
Let's go back to this first fall, though.
How did you sign up for your classes?
How did you select what you were going to take?
I didn't.
They already had them for me.
You had the chemistry.
You had English.
You had math.
English.
Yeah, you had English and you had chemistry and math.
And you had 18 hours, I know.
18 hours one semester and 19 hours the next semester.
And you had.
What did you, when you went to those classes the first day in each of them, how did you feel about the teacher and how they,
started off?
Well, I was, as I say, I was pretty ignorant.
I didn't know much about this college business.
But I can remember who I had my freshman year in English and I can remember
Who I had.
Who were they?
We called them Jelly.
Morgan?
No.
I'll get dressed in chemistry.
We had a
a student, advanced student, that took a lot of the responsibility of the chemistry.
And math, a brown man, I can't remember his name, but when it all said and done over all those years, I'll remember a lot of them.
What was a, describe that first semester, describe a typical day.
What time did you get up and report for work and go to class and all that?
Well, after I got that job, after I'd been here about a week and got a job as a waiter over in the Semise Hall, I would get up about
or be ready to go to work over there so the kids go, we'd have tables all set.
And when they marched in, then they had to march into every meal.
And it was, it was just a long day.
What time did you get out?
Do you remember?
Oh, about 6.30.
to be there, be serving by seven.
And so when I got back.
When you finished breakfast, what?
Well, I went to the different classes.
One class I had was math, and it was a six-hour course.
And you met that thing every day.
Monday through Saturday morning.
And ooh, I hated that claim.
They don't have those six-hour courses anymore, I don't think.
Now, then you went back to work at noon.
At noon.
And then about 5 o'clock we went back again.
And we got out about 7.30 that night.
And then we had to start studying.
They made a study.
And then we had to close the lights sale at 10 o'clock.
We studied as we got off work.
They're supposed to study anyway.
Not all the time we wouldn't do it.
But this, it was interesting.
Now, your roommate, did you all call roommates then old ladies, fish old ladies?
Oh, yes.
Who was your, who was your fish?
Jack Skaggs.
Where was he from?
From Plano, Texas.
And Jack,
was a lot smarter than I was.
And he, I think he graduated, well, I lost him after my freshman year, but I saw him a lot.
And he graduated, I believe, in chemical engineering.
and went to work for Dow and graduated from Dow with a real, real good recommendation as one of their top men.
And my son knew him, but he was a good one.
And I don't know, I haven't seen Jack.
When we had our reunions, I never saw him at one of our reunions.
I was, but Higginbotham, Raymond Higginbotham, he made all of ours, and when he got out,
He went to Hereford and he went here and he has there four different good jobs.
And finally when he bought some land out at West Texas there somewhere and raised sugar beet.
And he told me he made a lot of money on those sugar beets.
But he passed away last year.
What was it like to be a fish then?
How did those sophomores treat you?
Describe that.
Well, you know, they would have these what they called air outs.
About 12 o'clock at night, every so often they'd surprise you.
open your door and air you out and get those Sam Browns after you and here you'd scoot anywhere you can to keep one beating you up.
And we lived on the first floor, old Jack and I, and we'd open that screen and we'd hear them coming and we'd beat them, get them out that
open that screen and we'd be gone until they got smart and they saw what was happening.
So they went outside that screen and wait till we got out.
And when they wanted something, all they'd do is go to the old door, you know, and holler, freshman.
And then we'd have to go.
The last one there had to do the errands, what he wanted.
the upperclassmen wanted to do.
What kind of errands?
Anything.
What were some examples?
Well, for instance, the post office way down here by the railroad track.
And that was the main thing, especially when it was cold and rainy.
They'd have to go and pick up their mail if they had any.
And that was the biggest problem.
Other than that, well, just incidentals.
And, uh.
In the dining hall, you were working.
How did the cadets behave in the dining hall in those days in Sabisa?
Well, we had a little fellow by the name of Sergeant King, and he had charge of the employees of the waitresses.
We were called waiters, and he thought that was pretty well taken care of.
Now, my second half, they gave me a senior table.
And they were treated first.
And they got the first, uh, anything they wanted in the kitchen.
We had, if they didn't have it there, we had to go back there and try to get them what they wanted.
But I never had any problems with any of my tables.
I guess I wasn't smart enough to do anything but what they wanted me to do.
What were some of the nicknames that Aggies created for the food?
Oh gosh.
I just, you know, it's been so long.
Cush I know was dessert, and milk was cow.
Yeah, and I just, I can't remember that far back.
I didn't know what some of them were called.
What were the most popular foods?
What were the favorites?
What did everybody like best?
You know, that's a good question.
I really don't know.
But when they had chili supper at night, I think that was one of their more popular items, which you would have about maybe once a week or something like that.
When you brought food to the table,
Were there any things that you had to be very careful about?
You sure, not supposed to spill anything.
If you did, what happened to you?
That's bad.
We had an old boy next to me, table next to me, spilt, we'd bring water in a big,
bowl, and he had slipped out of that tray on, on the table and got everybody.
Man, he caught demerit there for I don't know how long he was, he was in, in bad shape.
But
They were all, they weren't bad.
Did they play games at the table?
Well, not any of my tables, I didn't any.
We had, as I say, my, my group, my first, second semester was all seniors and they were, they were a good bunch of,
Man, they had the thought of getting out of there, you know, and they weren't much fooling around with them.
When did you eat?
After?
After they were gone.
And how long would it take you to eat a meal?
Well, I had another friend that worked right next to one of the tables next to me.
name of John Bone and a Wichita Falls boy and then a band.
And we'd eat together and then we'd, if we'd see something that they didn't eat on another table, we'd go over and get some of it and eat what we, we always, we gained weight.
What were your favorite Aggie foods?
What did you enjoy most?
Oh, I can't, I can't remember just what all I had.
I really don't.
Did you gain some weight?
Oh, yeah.
I went in there to, as a freshman, at 123 pounds.
And I got out, I weighed about 150.
But after I got back for the second
year, I was working in the, in the, in the, in Sabisa Hall there, and I went up and introduced myself to Mr. Hotard, J.C.
Hotard, and asked him if he ever had an opening next, across the street there in the old Aggieland Inn.
So he said, yeah, I've got one right now.
Would you like to go to work over there tomorrow?
So I went to work Aggieland Inn the next day.
I hadn't been here two weeks, I don't give.
This is in the fall of your sophomore year.
The fall of my sophomore year, right.
And I stayed there until I graduated.
Hmm.
Describe your duties over there.
Well, we, they had,
They had a little coffee shop and a little dining room and we opened at the coffee shop.
I went to work at 6 o'clock over there and opened the door at 6 o'clock in the coffee shop.
And it stayed open until about 2.30 and then they opened again about 5 and stayed
open until 7.30.
And so, I would go to work.
It'd be there.
It'd open up at 6 o'clock, and I'd stay there until if I had an 8 o'clock class, I'd go then.
Two hours.
We had two hours in the morning, two hours at noon, and two hours at night.
11.30 to 1.30.
And 5.30 till 7.30.
And that's what I did from 35 till I graduated in May of 38.
Describe the Aggieland Inn.
How big was it, how many rooms, and how it operated?
Well, it was a three, do you ever remember that?
No, it was gone before I got here.
Oh, it was about a three-story building.
And I would say it had about 30 rooms.
West of Cebisa.
Right across the street.
And each of these rooms, by today's standards, would be double rooms?
That is, it had a double?
Most of them were.
And in the middle of the room, that's where they had their, their, take their showers and things.
They didn't have any showers in a room.
Oh, so in the middle of the hallway?
That's right.
Had a hall go down there and then the showers and the commodes and all that.
Kind of something like what they had in some of these dormitories.
It had been built about having?
You know, I have no idea when that was built.
Did it seem old when you went to work there?
Well, it was old.
Okay.
And I really hated to see that leave.
They just tore it down.
Mr. Hotard was responsible for all... He had charges of that.
Duncan had charges of the police.
Oh, okay.
And did you all have your own kitchen for the Aggieland Inn?
Did you cook over there?
Yes, they had their own kitchen.
And...
had a sandwich place where they made sandwiches and others did all the cooking of the meats and steaks and all that kind of stuff.
And we worked there six days a week, six hours a day, seven days a week, and got paid fifteen.